to the Middle East next where Russia has
entered the Diplomatic Frey as Iran vows
to punish Israel for the assassination
of Hamas political Chief is hania on its
own soil Russia Security Council
secretary Serge shyu met the new Iranian
president masud pesan in Teran on Monday
and according to State media wants to
expand Iran's relations with its Court
strategic partner Russia this comes as
the US steps up its diplomatic efforts
to avoid a wider war in the region US
President Joe Biden and vice president
kamla Harris met with security officials
to discuss threats posed by Iran and its
proxies to American military forces in
the
region and as Israel braces for any
possible retaliation from Iran the
families of the 115 remaining Israeli
hostages in Gaza fear the escalation
will make a ceasefire deal even more out
of fre indirect negotiations between
Hamas and Israel have so far been
unsuccessful and the threat of a wider
conflict in the region appears to be
growing
daily it is not easy for Dan El garat to
walk here in Tel aviv's hostage
Square for 10 months he has been
campaigning for the release of his
brother iik who was kidnapped by Hamas
from kibuts near o on October 7 but now
as a crisis unfolds with Iran and
Hezbollah a ceasefire and hostage deal
seem more elusive than
ever I support the assassinations of the
leaders I think these people deserve to
die and we need to eliminate them the
question is when and whether they are
more important than the lives of
hostages that is the
question after the targeted killings of
Hamas leader isma Han in tan and f shuk
a senior hisbah figure in Beirut Israel
is now praised for retaliation and
possible escalation
115 hostages are still believed to be
held in Gaza some of whom are no longer
alive people here in tviv are extremely
worried about the fate of the hostages
still being held in Gaza fearing an
allout war with Iran and Hezbollah
people here are more on edge than ever
life goes on as usual here at least for
now but the threat of an imminent
escalation is on everyone's
mind it's very worrying things are
unclear there is a lack of
information we don't know what is going
to happen we are terribly worried about
our people over there there is no one
who is leading us responsibly it's a
difficult feeling it's not easy to be a
citizen in Israel
today for me it was already scary after
7th of
October uh and uh I was really scared
because I wasn't like sure what's going
to be tomorrow or the day after tomorrow
but uh eventually like um um I'm sure
that everything is going to be okay no
matter what and trying to stay calm yeah
but it's a bit scary cuz you don't know
what to expect Danny El garat is
critical of netanyahu's strategy of
Maximum military pressure and thinks
he's motivated by his desire to stay in
power we see the condition the state is
in today
the country's condition is much worse
than on October 7th we're on the worch
of a regional
war in the face of growing uncertainty
the hostages families are waiting
anxiously for their loved ones to come
home as the country prepares for
whatever comes
next let's get more from DW Middle East
analyst Shani rosanes who can put this
into perspective for us shannie welcome
how far away are we from a ceasefire
deal right now well very far think I
think there's no reason to assume that
Hamas would be having any interest in
letting Israel you know deescalate the
situation Hamas what is seeing now
unfolding you know with the threat of of
you know Iranian response on Israel
hasbalah and so on this is what they
wanted from the GetGo Hamas wanted to
see as many fronts you know Israel
entangled in as many fronts as possible
and it's on the verge of reaching that
goal so there is no probably any
incentive there and also Netanyahu I
think made a very calculous decision to
go for these you know assassinations
that triggered the situation we are in
knowing it might have a direct
implication on uh you know any deal that
is possible so I think both sides are
kind of pushing that aside for a while
though technically still talks are being
held mostly because of American and
Egyptian pressure who feel like there's
so much details to work in the backstage
of the mechanism and this can still be
uh ongoing uh without reaching the heavy
uh issues but um we're not anywhere
close no so with this being the
situation How likely is another Iranian
attack on Israel really well there's no
doubt the threat is imminent I mean the
Iranians are very clear in their you
know in in their intentions they they
communicate very clearly what shape this
uh attack will will take this is the big
question and in Israel there's a growing
assessment that first actually it would
be hasbalah from Lebanon who has its own
open tap with Israel following uh the
assassination of the the leading
military uh official there last week and
and the assumption is also that this is
the more challenging threat for Israel
because of the proximity I mean you know
Bala sits right on Israeli northern
border and also because it managed in
the last months of the war to actually
uh dumb down it operation in a way and
use more less sophisticated uh weapons
and this is a threat that Israel is
trying uh very much to tackle but it's
very much struggling with all of this
works in favor of Benjamin Netanyahu
does it well in a way I think it depends
what's the end goal he feels emboldened
politically I think he he hasn't felt so
strong since October 7th uh he doesn't
have any anything threatening his
position right now um of course there's
always you know the American pressure
there's a lot of pressure bubbling from
the public but I think anono sees for
now that I mean he can sail surely until
there's a new president in the White
House in November and he's hoping I
assume that it would be Trump and then
we will have he hopes card blanch to
take this war wherever he wants where is
the Israeli public in all of this what
does the Israeli public want to see I
think most Israelis are just exhausted
there's great fatigue I mean this is
basically a war of attrition we've been
seeing it going on tomorrow for 10
months um there's a lot of hopelessness
but there's also great fear of course
you know there's real anxiety when it
comes for you know waiting for the
Uranian response there's a lot of calls
of maybe Israel should be more active
sort of a preventive strike but then you
know I think Israel is not in a position
we can again hit on Iran but Israelis
are exhausted they're
depressed and I think that um they're
not the only ones you know in the region
you know Palestinians are in Far More
dire situation unfortunately we leave it
there for the moment DW's Middle East
andley Shan rosanas thanks so much
welcome